# Leetcode 104. Maximum Depth of Binary Tree

## TAG: EASY
## problem description
Given the `root` of a binary tree, return its maximum depth.

A binary tree's maximum depth is the number of nodes along the longest path from the root node down to the farthest leaf node.

Example 1:
Input: root = [3,9,20,null,null,15,7]
Output: 3

Example 2:
Input: root = [1,null,2]
Output: 2

## idea
By definition, the maximum depth of a binary tree is the maximum of the maximum depth of its left subtree and the maximum depth of its right subtree. So we can use recursion to solve this problem.
> H : the maximum depth of a binary tree.
> For every node:
>    H(node) = H(left subtree) + H(right subtree)+1

## Recursion Solution
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int maxDepth(TreeNode* root) {
        if(root == nullptr) return 0;
        return max(maxDepth(root->left), maxDepth(root->right)) + 1;
    }
};
```
- Time complexity: O(n)
- Space complexity: O(n) (worst case)
Time complexity is O(n) because we need to traverse all the nodes in the tree.
Space complexity is O(n) at worst case, because the recursion stack may contain all the nodes in the tree if the tree is like a linked list (i.e. every node has only one left child).
If the tree is balanced, the space complexity is O(log (n)).
In some cases, the recursion solution may cause stack overflow.

Can we improve the space complexity by using tail recursion? In some cases, we can improve by using tail recursion, the recursive call is the last statement in the function. But in this problem, we can't improve the space complexity by using tail recursion. Because we need to calculate the maximum of the maximum depth of its left subtree and the maximum depth of its right subtree, so we need to store the return value of the recursive call of the left subtree and the right subtree.

**Note: Tail recursion is not supported by Java and Python.**

But as we can see, the time complexity is still O(n) and the space complexity is still O(n) at worst case. So this solution is not better than the above solution.
## Tail Recursion?
```cpp
class Solution {
private:
    int maxDepth(TreeNode* root, int depth) {
        if(root == nullptr) return depth;
        // this is not tail recursion, because we need to 
        // judge the return value of max(left, right)
        return max(maxDepth(root->left, depth+1), maxDepth(root->right, depth+1));
    }
public:
    int maxDepth(TreeNode* root) {
        return maxDepth(root, 0);
    }
};
```

### Iterative Solution
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int maxDepth(TreeNode* root){
        if(root == nullptr) return 0;

        int max_depth = 0;
        stack<pair<TreeNode*, int>> s;

        s.push({root, 1});
        
        while(!s.empty()){
            auto item = s.top();
            s.pop();
            TreeNode* node = item.first;
            int depth = item.second;
            
            max_depth = max(depth, max_depth);

            if(node->left) s.push({node->left, depth+1});
            if(node->right) s.push({node->right, depth+1});
        }
        return max_depth;
    }
};
```
